docs/en/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

At the center of every Vuex application is the **store**. A "store" is basically a container that holds your application **state**. There are two things that makes a Vuex store different from a plain global object:

1. Vuex stores are reactive. When Vue components retrieve state from it, they will reactively and efficiently update if the store's state changes.

2. You cannot directly mutate the store's state. The only way to change a store's state is by explicitly **committing mutations**. This ensures every state change leaves a track-able record, and enables tooling that helps us better understand our applications.

### The Simplest Store

> **NOTE:** We will be using ES2015 syntax for code examples for the rest of the docs. If you haven't picked it up, [you should](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)!

After [installing](installation.md) Vuex, let's create a store. It is pretty straightforward - just provide an initial state object, and some mutations:

``` js
// Make sure to call Vue.use(Vuex) first if using a module system

const store = new Vuex.Store({
  state: {
    count: 0
  },
  mutations: {
    INCREMENT (state) {
      state.count++
    }
  }
})
```

Now, you can access the state object as `store.state`, and trigger a state change with the `store.commit` method:

``` js
store.commit('INCREMENT')

console.log(store.state.count) // -> 1
```

Again, the reason we are committing a mutation instead of changing `store.state.count` directly, is because we want to explicitly track it. This simple convention makes your intention more explicit, so that you can reason about state changes in your app better when reading the code. In addition, this gives us the opportunity to implement tools that can log every mutation, take state snapshots, or even perform time travel debugging.

Next, let's see [how to use the State inside Vue components](state.md).

Commit message:

docs: add an example to getting started

docs/en/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

At the center of every Vuex application is the **store**. A "store" is basically a container that holds your application **state**. There are two things that makes a Vuex store different from a plain global object:

1. Vuex stores are reactive. When Vue components retrieve state from it, they will reactively and efficiently update if the store's state changes.

2. You cannot directly mutate the store's state. The only way to change a store's state is by explicitly **committing mutations**. This ensures every state change leaves a track-able record, and enables tooling that helps us better understand our applications.

### The Simplest Store

> **NOTE:** We will be using ES2015 syntax for code examples for the rest of the docs. If you haven't picked it up, [you should](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)!

After [installing](installation.md) Vuex, let's create a store. It is pretty straightforward - just provide an initial state object, and some mutations:

``` js
// Make sure to call Vue.use(Vuex) first if using a module system

const store = new Vuex.Store({
  state: {
    count: 0
  },
  mutations: {
    increment (state) {
      state.count++
    }
  }
})
```

Now, you can access the state object as `store.state`, and trigger a state change with the `store.commit` method:

``` js
store.commit('increment')

console.log(store.state.count) // -> 1
```

Again, the reason we are committing a mutation instead of changing `store.state.count` directly, is because we want to explicitly track it. This simple convention makes your intention more explicit, so that you can reason about state changes in your app better when reading the code. In addition, this gives us the opportunity to implement tools that can log every mutation, take state snapshots, or even perform time travel debugging.

Using store state in a component simply involves returning the state within a computed property, because the store state is reactive. Triggering changes simply means committing mutations in component methods.

Here's an example of the [most basic Vuex counter app](https://jsfiddle.net/yyx990803/n9jmu5v7/).

Next, we will discuss each core concept in much finer details and let's start with [State](state.md).
