docs/en/installation.md, before:

# Installation

### Direct Download / CDN

[https://unpkg.com/vuex](https://unpkg.com/vuex)

<!--email_off-->
[Unpkg.com](https://unpkg.com) provides NPM-based CDN links. The above link will always point to the latest release on NPM. You can also use a specific version/tag via URLs like `https://unpkg.com/vuex@2.0.0`.
<!--/email_off-->

Include `vuex` after Vue and it will install itself automatically:

``` html
<script src="/path/to/vue.js"></script>
<script src="/path/to/vuex.js"></script>
```

### NPM

``` bash
npm install vuex --save
```

### Yarn

``` bash
yarn add vuex
```

When used with a module system, you must explicitly install Vuex via `Vue.use()`:

``` js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuex from 'vuex'

Vue.use(Vuex)
```

You don't need to do this when using global script tags.

### Dev Build

You will have to clone directly from GitHub and build `vuex` yourself if
you want to use the latest dev build.

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/vuejs/vuex.git node_modules/vuex
cd node_modules/vuex
npm install
npm run build
```

Commit message:

docs: mention that vuex requires promise (#1033)
* docs: mention that vuex requires promise

* docs: add comma before "such as"

docs/en/installation.md, after:

# Installation

### Direct Download / CDN

[https://unpkg.com/vuex](https://unpkg.com/vuex)

<!--email_off-->
[Unpkg.com](https://unpkg.com) provides NPM-based CDN links. The above link will always point to the latest release on NPM. You can also use a specific version/tag via URLs like `https://unpkg.com/vuex@2.0.0`.
<!--/email_off-->

Include `vuex` after Vue and it will install itself automatically:

``` html
<script src="/path/to/vue.js"></script>
<script src="/path/to/vuex.js"></script>
```

### NPM

``` bash
npm install vuex --save
```

### Yarn

``` bash
yarn add vuex
```

When used with a module system, you must explicitly install Vuex via `Vue.use()`:

``` js
import Vue from 'vue'
import Vuex from 'vuex'

Vue.use(Vuex)
```

You don't need to do this when using global script tags.

### Promise

Vuex requires [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises). If your supporting browsers do not implement Promise (e.g. IE), you can use a polyfill library, such as [es6-promise](https://github.com/stefanpenner/es6-promise).

You can include it via CDN:

``` html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/es6-promise@4/dist/es6-promise.auto.js"></script>
```

Then `window.Promise` will be available automatically.

If you prefer using a package manager such as NPM or Yarn, install it with the following commands:

``` bash
npm install es6-promise --save # NPM
yarn add es6-promise # Yarn
```

Furthermore, add the below line into anywhere in your code before using Vuex:

``` js
import 'es6-promise/auto'
```

### Dev Build

You will have to clone directly from GitHub and build `vuex` yourself if
you want to use the latest dev build.

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/vuejs/vuex.git node_modules/vuex
cd node_modules/vuex
npm install
npm run build
```
