docs/en/mutations.md, before:

# Mutations

Vuex mutations are essentially events: each mutation has a **name** and a **handler**. The handler function always gets the entire state tree as the first argument:

``` js
import Vuex from 'vuex'

const vuex = new Vuex({
  state: {
    count: 1
  },
  mutations: {
    INCREMENT (state) {
      // mutate state
      state.count++
    }
  }
})
```

Using all caps for mutation names is just a convention to make it easier to differentiate them from actions.

You cannot directly call a mutation handler. The options here is more like event registration: "When an `INCREMENT` event is dispatched, call this handler." To invoke a mutation handler, you need to dispatch a mutation event:

``` js
vuex.dispatch('INCREMENT')
```

### Dispatch with Arguments

It is also possible to pass along arguments:

``` js
// ...
mutations: {
  INCREMENT (state, n) {
    state.count += n
  }
}
```
``` js
vuex.dispatch('INCREMENT', 10)
```

Here `10` will be passed to the mutation handler as the second argument following `state`. Same for any additional arguments. These arguments are called the **payload** for the given mutation.

### Using Constants for Mutation Names

It is also common to use constants for mutation names - they allow the code to take advantage of tooling like linters, and putting all constants in a single file allows your collaborators to get an at-a-glance view of what mutations are possible in the entire application:

``` js
// mutation-types.js
export const SOME_MUTATION = 'SOME_MUTATION'
```

``` js
// vuex.js
import Vuex from 'vuex'
import { SOME_MUTATION } from './mutation-types'

const vuex = new Vuex({
  state: { ... },
  actions: { ... },
  mutations: {
    // we can use the ES2015 computed property name feature
    // to use a constant as the function name
    [SOME_MUTATION] (state) {
      // mutate state
    }
  }
})
```

Whether to use constants is largely a preference - it can be helpful in large projects with many developers, but it's totally optional if you don't like them.

### On to Actions

Manually calling `vuex.dispatch` is possible, but in practice, we will rarely do this in our component code. Most of the time we will be calling [actions](actions.md), which can encapsulate more complex logic such as async data fetching.

Also, one important rule to remember: all mutation handlers must be **synchronous**. Any async operations belong in actions.

Commit message:

edits to actions/mutations docs

docs/en/mutations.md, after:

# Mutations

Vuex mutations are essentially events: each mutation has a **name** and a **handler**. The handler function always gets the entire state tree as the first argument:

``` js
import Vuex from 'vuex'

const vuex = new Vuex({
  state: {
    count: 1
  },
  mutations: {
    INCREMENT (state) {
      // mutate state
      state.count++
    }
  }
})
```

Using all caps for mutation names is just a convention to make it easier to differentiate them from actions.

You cannot directly call a mutation handler. The options here is more like event registration: "When an `INCREMENT` event is dispatched, call this handler." To invoke a mutation handler, you need to dispatch a mutation event:

``` js
vuex.dispatch('INCREMENT')
```

### Dispatch with Arguments

It is also possible to pass along arguments:

``` js
// ...
mutations: {
  INCREMENT (state, n) {
    state.count += n
  }
}
```
``` js
vuex.dispatch('INCREMENT', 10)
```

Here `10` will be passed to the mutation handler as the second argument following `state`. Same for any additional arguments. These arguments are called the **payload** for the given mutation.

### Mutations Follow Vue's Reactivity Rules

Since Vuex's state is made reactive by Vue, when we mutate the state, Vue components observing the state will update automatically. This also means Vuex mutations are subject to the same reactivity caveats when working with plain Vue:

1. Prefer initializing your Vuex initial state with all desired fields upfront.
2. When adding new properties to an Object, you should either use `Vue.set(obj, 'newProp', 123)`, or replace that Object with a fresh one, e.g. `state.obj = { ...state.obj, newProp: 123 }` (Using stage-2 [object spread syntax](https://github.com/sebmarkbage/ecmascript-rest-spread) here).

### Using Constants for Mutation Names

It is also common to use constants for mutation names - they allow the code to take advantage of tooling like linters, and putting all constants in a single file allows your collaborators to get an at-a-glance view of what mutations are possible in the entire application:

``` js
// mutation-types.js
export const SOME_MUTATION = 'SOME_MUTATION'
```

``` js
// vuex.js
import Vuex from 'vuex'
import { SOME_MUTATION } from './mutation-types'

const vuex = new Vuex({
  state: { ... },
  actions: { ... },
  mutations: {
    // we can use the ES2015 computed property name feature
    // to use a constant as the function name
    [SOME_MUTATION] (state) {
      // mutate state
    }
  }
})
```

Whether to use constants is largely a preference - it can be helpful in large projects with many developers, but it's totally optional if you don't like them.

### On to Actions

Manually calling `vuex.dispatch` is possible, but in practice, we will rarely do this in our component code. Most of the time we will be calling [actions](actions.md), which can encapsulate more complex logic such as async data fetching.

Also, one important rule to remember: all mutation handlers must be **synchronous**. Any async operations belong in actions.
